Add RubyGems documentation (#701)
containerbuildsystem/cachito: README.md

These repositories are created per request and deleted when the request is marked as stale or the
request fails.

### Nexus for RubyGems

The RubyGems package manager functionality relies on [Nexus Repository Manager 3][nexus-docs] to
store RubyGems dependencies. The Nexus instance consists of two repositories that act as a long
terms storage - RubyGems proxy repository (e.g. `cachito-rubygems-proxy`) that points to
`rubygems.org` and raw repository (e.g. `cachito-rubygems-raw`) used for storing Git dependencies.
The RubyGems proxy repository caches all RubyGems packages that Cachito downloads through it and the
raw repository holds tarballs of Git dependencies that Cachito uploads there after fetching them
from the original locations.

On each request, Cachito creates a RubyGems hosted repository (e.g. `cachito-rubygems-hosted-1`)
and uploads there all GEM dependencies for the request. This repository is created per request and
deleted when the request is marked as stale or the request fails. Redirecting Bundler to use this
repository instead of a default RubyGems server is done by providing a configuration file. Note that

> there's no request specific repository for external dependencies as other package managers do.

Reviewer: > there's no request specific repository for external dependencies

Might be worth mentioning how it's done instead? (Or just link to the relevant section below)

### Current Tool Versions

Tool      | Version |
---       |---------|
Go        | 1.18.6  |
Npm       | 8.3.1   |
Node      | 16.14.0 |
Pip       | 21.3.1  |
Python    | 3.10.6  |
Git       | 2.37.3  |
Yarn*     | 1.x     |

> RubyGems* | 2.x     |

Reviewer 2: Perhaps the docs should mention Bundler (as the package manager) instead of "RubyGems" ?

(or else, I'm not sure what `2.x` means in the context of "RubyGems" ? )

* Cachito does not use the Yarn runtime. The processing of yarn.lock files is handled by
  [PYarn](https://github.com/containerbuildsystem/pyarn), which is compatible with any 1.x file.

> * Cachito does not use the RubyGems runtime. The processing of Gemfile.lock files is handled by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Cachito does not use the Ruby runtime (no ruby is interpreted from `Gemfile`s). The processing of Gemfile.lock files is handled by
```

uploading it again. This guarantees that any dependency used for a Cachito request can be used again
in a future Cachito request.

> ### RubyGems

Reviewer: Could you also mention some of the Cachito-specific requirements and how users need to update their repository to meet those requirements?

Off the top of my head, that is
* Gem must pure ruby
* Git deps must use https:// and specify the exact commit hash

uploading it again. This guarantees that any dependency used for a Cachito request can be used again
in a future Cachito request.

### RubyGems

> The RubyGems package manager works by parsing the `Gemfile.lock` file present in the source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Bundler package manager works by parsing the `Gemfile.lock` file present in the source
```

If a GIT dependency is specified with `branch:` in the Gemfile, this branch is checked out so that 
local GIT repo redirection works.

Note that configuration files expose the username and password of the temporary user created for 
your request. This should not be a security concern, the user only has read access for 
the repositories and the only reason why we do not allow anonymous read access is due to a technical
limitation in Nexus.

### Requirements for RubyGems repos

There are several constraints on RubyGems packages that are enforced by Cachito and not meeting them
raises an exception sooner or later:

- To prevent Cachito from downloading native content (binaries) `Gemfile.lock` has to contain only
  one platform in it's `PLATFORM` section and it has to be `ruby`.
- All `PATH` dependencies listed in `Gemfile.lock` have to be explicitly allowed in Cachito's
  config. For example, a repository at URL `github.com/cachito-testing/cachito-rubygems-multiple` with
  `PATH` dependency `pathgem` will be processed properly only if Cachito's config contains the
  following entry

``` 
cachito_rubygems_file_deps_allowlist = {

>     "cachito-rubygems-multiple/first_pkg": ["pathgem"] 

Reviewer: It might be good to explicitly mention that the package is at the `first_pkg` subpath in the repo - otherwise it's not clear why a repo called "cachito-rubygems-multiple" needs an entry named "cachito-rubygems-multiple/first_pkg" (unless the reader can piece it together from the paragraph about `/subpath` below)

file is provided at `/api/v1/requests/<id>/configuration-files` endpoint. This file redirects 
Bundler to use Nexus proxy for downloading GEM dependencies and contains an entry for every Git 
dependency to be overridden by the corresponding dependency from `deps/rubygems` (instead of 
downloading it from the internet, see [local Git 
repos](https://bundler.io/man/bundle-config.1.html#LOCAL-GIT-REPOS) for more details). 
If a GIT dependency is specified with `branch:` in the Gemfile, this branch is checked out so that 
local GIT repo redirection works.

Note that configuration files expose the username and password of the temporary user created for 
your request. This should not be a security concern, the user only has read access for 
the repositories and the only reason why we do not allow anonymous read access is due to a technical
limitation in Nexus.

### Requirements for RubyGems repos

There are several constraints on RubyGems packages that are enforced by Cachito and not meeting them
raises an exception sooner or later:

- To prevent Cachito from downloading native content (binaries) `Gemfile.lock` has to contain only

>   one platform in it's `PLATFORM` section, and it has to be `ruby`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  one platform in its `PLATFORMS` section, and it has to be `ruby`.
```

Reviewer: Also plural for PLATFORM**S** (I think)

Author: yes

- All PATH dependencies listed in `Gemfile.lock` have to be explicitly allowed in Cachito's
  config file. For example, a repository at URL `github.com/cachito-testing/cachito-rubygems-multiple` with
  PATH dependency `pathgem` located at the subpath `pathgem/` from the root of the repository will be processed
  properly only if Cachito's config contains the following entry

``` 
cachito_rubygems_file_deps_allowlist = {
    "cachito-rubygems-multiple/first_pkg": ["pathgem"] 
}
```

Note that the name of the package (the key in the dictionary) is the last component of its repo URL.
If PATH dependency isn't located in the root of the repo, then `/subpath` is appended to the name

> (as in the example above).

Reviewer: Oh, I just realized:
> If PATH dependency isn't located in the root of the repo, then `/subpath` is appended to the name
(as in the example above).

It's not about the path of the PATH dependency, but about the path to the package that _uses_ this PATH dependency. They key in the dictionary is the repo name + the path to https://github.com/cachito-testing/cachito-rubygems-multiple/tree/master/first_pkg. The value in the list is the _name_ of the PATH dependency. The actual path to the PATH dependency doesn't matter

Author: Exactly, this was wrong, I realized that too

Author: I think the section should be fixed now
